The Joe Rogan.
Experience.
We also know how to measure placebo and we don't know how the that works.
We know that hypnosis people can have open heart surgery under hypnosis or have
limbs amputated or all sorts of amazing things with no anesthesia whatsoever
because I've really been done. Oh yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Have you ever been.
Hypnotized? Yeah,
but I don't have high hypnotic ability that differs. Uh,
it's another thing that differs among people and Stanley actually has a really
interesting theory, uh, along those lines, which is that in, uh,
prehistoric populations, hypnotic ability would be, um,
uh, adaptive because a lot of the healing rituals
were keying into placebo response. Uh,
so if we have a certain ritual, if you're susceptible to, you know,
you believe in that like voodoo, uh, there's uh, you know,
voodoo death people die when they're a spell is cast or curse because they
believe it. If you don't believe it, it doesn't happen. So it happens, uh,
the opposite direction as well with healing. So his,
his idea is that that would have been a very adaptive, um,
characteristic in prehistoric societies. Whereas in contemporary societies,
it's maladaptive because you're more susceptible to advertising.
You're easier to manipulate. Yeah. Hmm. Yeah. So I, uh,
yeah, I've, I've uh, when I was in grad school,
I had some professors who worked with hypnosis and I studied it a bit,
uh, along the same,
around the same time I was looking at multiple personality disorder.
Cause I was real interested in this question of how the brain and the body
interact. How much of, you know,
there's all this research showing that people with the same, um,
condition in hospitals exactly the same age, same prognosis and all that.
They heal significantly faster.
If their hospital window looks out on trees,
as opposed to looks out at another building, something like that,
just looking at something like nature, keys,
the body into some sort of energy that, that helps it to heal.
Totally makes sense. I've met people with multiple personalities. Well,
Roseanne, Roseanne's got Mo doesn't she go? Make sure that's true. Um,
I know another one. That's a weird one is the football player. Herschel Walker.
I think he had trauma induced, multiple personality disorders. Wow.
There's an article that says like bill, bill Maher reminds us. She does.
And then Roseanne says she doesn't. So yeah, I think,
and then the sheet 2001 says seven, having seven personalities.
Just tough her saying it. So yeah.
Well here's the thing about Roseanne? I mean, I'm saying this for the 10th time.
I guess she was hit by a car when she was 15 and she was put in a mental
Institute for nine months afterwards.
She had severe brain damage and she lost her ability to do mathematics and like
really scrambled her brain.
And that is probably the birth of the Roseanne that we know the comedian.
And, um, that's also the case at Sam Kinison, Sam Kennison was also a,
like a pretty normal kid. And then he was hit by a car and, you know,
pretty severe brain damage as well. And, um,
brain damage for w especially, um,
apparently it especially has an impact on,
um, your ability to be rational and impulsive behavior.
Like people with brain damage. A lot of times get very impulsive.
It's very so widely, you know, it's, uh, what,
what happens to you dependent upon like what kind of trauma,
where the trauma is and what part of your brain, but, um, when,
when they said it about Herschel Walker, I was always confused.
I wonder if it was football, like football trauma or was it personal trauma?
Like, you know, abuse.
Yeah. People with let her diagnosed with multiple personality disorder.
If I remember correctly, almost always we're severely abused as kids,
you know? And in fact, the, the rationale is that they develop the,
uh, alternate personalities as a way of escaping a reality that's intolerable.
Thanks.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, look, people do weird things with horrible memories.
You know,
they bury them to the point where they don't even really have access to them
anymore. Sexual abuse, some, some traumatic events when you're young,
but the human brain, then the way it adapts and moles to things is so bizarre.
Yeah. There's a, there's an anecdote that is in this book, civilized to death.
Notice that segue. Good segue to thing. Um, yeah.
It's uh, by the way that the art is done by a guy listens to my podcast,
it's really, it looks like.
But the art by a guy, Uh, cheeseburger,
a Chimp where a cheeseburger with a nice suit.
Yeah. It has got an iPhone. Um, uh, oh yeah, the story.
So there's a species of grasshopper in
north Africa that, uh, you know,
they hang out they're grasshoppers, they're dispersed, they eat grass.
They're chill, right? Rains come the grasslands,
expand grasshopper population increases.
Then the rain stop the grasslands contract to the point where the PA the
density of the grasshoppers triggers a
dormant gene. So there's an epigenetic, uh,
event in these grasshoppers and they start to transform and not over
generations, individuals, front legs get shorter back legs, get longer.
Thorax changes, shape of the head changes, coloring changes,
and behavior changes from being these chilled out, solitary, relaxed grass,
grasshoppers. They start attacking each other.
They become cannibalistic and they swarm locus locus.
Exactly. They become locus.
So this species of grasshopper and locus is the same species.
It's the same DNA. It's just responding to different conditions. So,
you know,
we were talking about the brain and you know who you are and what identity is
and all that. And this, I was reminded of this when you said, uh, you know,
people are so different and the H2O thing,
we're not only different as individuals in the same context,
we change completely given the context we're in.
So the focus of his book is a hunter gatherers were essentially a different sort
of animal. They were essentially, you know, uh,
the parallel is with the grasshoppers and now we're swarming.
Now we're a different kind of animal, even though our DNA's the same.
Well, that completely makes sense to me.
People that live in small towns are so different than people that live in
cities. Yeah.
It's so rare that you find someone who has a small town sensibility in
Manhattan. Yeah. They get.
Chewed up. Yeah.
Literally. Yeah, literally. Yeah. It's um, that's the, the, the,
the locus thing's amazing.
Have you ever written or read Reddit rather the accounts of, um, the settlers,
uh, in the, you know, the pioneer days making their way across the country and,
uh,
dealing with these swarms of locusts and really not having any idea what to do
with them and how to handle it. Yeah. Yeah. You.
Can give Americans AIDEM. Yeah.
That's probably a real good move. Right.
That's one of the things that people think is, uh, probably, uh,
an excellent solution to, uh, some of the issues that people have with meat.
Cause a lot of people don't have any problem killing bugs,
but they wouldn't want to kill a lamb. Right. You know,
but you can have cricket protein. It's.
We call it micro agriculture. Yeah.
Yeah. Cricket protein is apparently like very healthy. I've eaten crickets.
Yeah. I have two.
In Thailand.
I've had them in Mexico.
Oh yeah. Mexico they've they had them fried and we were staying at a resort in,
uh, um, where was it? Um,
Punta Mita. Yeah. I think it was down there, uh, Puerto Vallarta. And, um,
they had a bowl in the resort, like when we walked into the hotel room, like,
oh yeah. They had like slice mangoes, and then they had crickets.
And I was like, all right, I'll try that. I hosted.
There's a restaurant here in LA that I was at just a couple of weeks ago.
That has all sorts of crickets and grasshoppers. What's it called? Uh,
it's a Mexican place. They specialize in Molay uh,
I don't remember what it's called.
It's really good. Is it a weird that, like,
there's a lot of great Mexican food in LA, but it's like, you know,
like your basic burrito, joints and taco.
It's not like gourmet Mexican food. It's very few gourmet Mexican places.
Places.
Yeah. That's it. That's right. Couldn't remember the name. Jane.
[inaudible].
The topic. Is that say, have you been there? No, I just I've known the word.
It's like a, I don't know if it means party,
but it's a celebration down [inaudible] yeah.
Serving up insects.
Yeah. Check it out. It's a good place. I really, the Malays fantastic.
Part of LA on lunch Olympic. Okay. Deep in the heart of Texas. Yeah.
Bam. Beautiful. Yeah.
I love Mola and let's face it. Shrimp lobster. That's just bugs.
Those are just big Seba.
Well,
we found that out on fear factor was people that are allergic to shellfish are
also allergic to roaches. Yeah. We found that out. The hard way.
Little lawsuit. No, no. The dude, uh,
was allergic to shellfish and he had to eat roaches for this thing.
And you know, they wound up having to give him an adrenaline shot.
Yeah.
He was a season up a little bit. Your windpipe starts constricting. Yeah.
I'm not allergic to anything as far as I know. I'm very happy. Yeah.
Me too. Yeah. That's a bummer man. Allergies are above,
especially fricking peanuts.
I've I've heard peanut allergies are so bad that people will ask you to not eat
peanuts on a plane with someone who has a peanut allergy.
Like some people's peanut allergy is so severe.
Even like the dust of you chewing peanuts on a plane
next to them, you get them sick.
And, and it's interesting to think about the state of consciousness and how that
affects allergies, because apparently, and again,
I'm always cautious about saying on the show shows.
There's so many people listening.
So caveats been a long time since I read the research.
But if I remember correctly, uh, under hypnosis,
a lot of people with allergies no longer. In fact, I remember the research.
Yeah. There was a,
it was a setup where the person could see.
So like you and I are talking across the table and there's a mirror behind me
and in the mirror, in your peripheral vision, you see, uh,
roses and you're allergic to roses.
You'll have a reaction even though they're plastic roses. Oh.
So it sort of enters the consciousness and triggers the response
subconsciously. Yeah. If I think that's how it was.
And then with people under hypnosis, like, uh, Andrew Weil wrote about this, uh,
cat allergies and he was tripping and he was on MDM, I think.
And he was playing with a cat and had no reaction to it. Wow.
Are you this self hypnosis? Squelches allergies, pictures.
Jamie and my life too.
Picturing ski slopes reduces hayfever symptoms by a third. Look at that.
Picturing ski slopes. How weird, what a wheel? Oh, I'm skiing.
Uh.
Well, because you're picturing a place where there's no pollen. Right?
You could probably picture the surface of Mars too.
You've ever got a needle, you know,
like you got a shot in the doctor's about to give you the shot and you start
like tensing up. Like, you feel this, like the anticipation,
it makes it like your,
your heart starts quickening and you get like really weirded out by it.
But then you get the shot and like, oh, that wasn't. Like,
why was I freaking out like that? But it's this the psychosomatic aspect of it,
I think.
And that's what life is basically not share in a nutshell,
like we're always worried about things.
We spent so much time worrying about things. Most of which never occur. Yeah.
You know, and even the ones that do occur, it's like, wow, whatever, like death,
you know, what is, I'm not worried about death dying.
Maybe if it takes too long. But if it's, if it takes like an hour,
a day to die, that's a tiny fraction of your life who gives a.